content/docs/preface/faqs.md, before:

# FAQs

## Who maintains AdonisJS?

AdonisJS is an independent project created by [Harminder Virk](https://twitter.com/AmanVirk1) in 2015. The framework is actively maintained by the [core team](https://github.com/orgs/adonisjs/people) and community contributors.

The framework creator (Harminder Virk) is the project lead and works full-time on the framework.

The project is funded through GitHub Sponsors. If you or your business benefit from AdonisJS, consider [sponsoring us to support the framework development](https://github.com/sponsors/thetutlage).

## How is AdonisJS licensed?

AdonisJS (the framework) and the official packages are distributed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/). In addition, the source code is publicly available on [GitHub](https://github.com/adonisjs).

## Is AdonisJS reliable and well-maintained?

AdonisJS is used in production by [Marie Claire](https://www.marieclaire.com/), [Cleavr](https://cleavr.io), [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/), [Cavai](https://cavai.com), [Kayako](https://kayako.com), [Renault Group](https://www.renaultgroup.com/en/), [Zakodium](https://www.zakodium.com/), [FIVB](https://www.fivb.com), and many more companies in varying capacities.

The framework creator works full-time on AdonisJS and ensures the framework is actively improved and maintained.

- During the v6 release, we migrated to the ES module system.
- Officially maintained packages have zero security vulnerabilities reported by Snyk’s security scan.
- We continuously work towards writing better documentation, releasing new features, and improving the existing codebase. 

## Is AdonisJS fast?

When creating the framework or adding new features, we primarily focus on solving real-world problems rather than cutting down the functionality to make AdonisJS win the benchmark Olympics.

However, we look closer at the performance metrics and fine-tune the framework performance wherever it matters. For example:

- The AdonisJS HTTP server in standalone mode is [on par with Fastify in performance](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/benchmarks.md). 
- The validation layer of the framework [outperforms other popular validation libraries](https://github.com/vinejs/vine/blob/main/benchmarks.md) in the Node.js ecosystem.

## Do you offer paid support?
Yes! On our website, you can learn more about the [priority support program](https://adonisjs.com/support_program).

## How do I stay up to date with AdonisJS?
Check out the following links to stay connected and up-to-date.

- [Discord server](https://discord.gg/vDcEjq6)
- [X (Formerly Twitter)](https://twitter.com/adonisframework)
- [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/orgs/adonisjs/discussions)
- [Blog and Newsletter](https://adonisjs.com/blog?referrer=adonisjs_docs_faq)
- [Adocasts](https://adocasts.com/?referrer=adonisjs_docs_faq)

Commit message:

feat: og images (#90)
* feat: og images

* chore: use preview url

* fix: url

* feat: twitter tags

* fix: duplicate entry titles

* chore: shortened some summary

* feat: add category to template

* refactor: update ace permalink

* feat: update og images

* chore: update absolute url

content/docs/preface/faqs.md, after:

---
summary: Frequently asked questions about AdonisJS, the framework, and its ecosystem.
---

# FAQs

## Who maintains AdonisJS?

AdonisJS is an independent project created by [Harminder Virk](https://twitter.com/AmanVirk1) in 2015. The framework is actively maintained by the [core team](https://github.com/orgs/adonisjs/people) and community contributors.

The framework creator (Harminder Virk) is the project lead and works full-time on the framework.

The project is funded through GitHub Sponsors. If you or your business benefit from AdonisJS, consider [sponsoring us to support the framework development](https://github.com/sponsors/thetutlage).

## How is AdonisJS licensed?

AdonisJS (the framework) and the official packages are distributed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/). In addition, the source code is publicly available on [GitHub](https://github.com/adonisjs).

## Is AdonisJS reliable and well-maintained?

AdonisJS is used in production by [Marie Claire](https://www.marieclaire.com/), [Cleavr](https://cleavr.io), [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/), [Cavai](https://cavai.com), [Kayako](https://kayako.com), [Renault Group](https://www.renaultgroup.com/en/), [Zakodium](https://www.zakodium.com/), [FIVB](https://www.fivb.com), and many more companies in varying capacities.

The framework creator works full-time on AdonisJS and ensures the framework is actively improved and maintained.

- During the v6 release, we migrated to the ES module system.
- Officially maintained packages have zero security vulnerabilities reported by Snyk’s security scan.
- We continuously work towards writing better documentation, releasing new features, and improving the existing codebase. 

## Is AdonisJS fast?

When creating the framework or adding new features, we primarily focus on solving real-world problems rather than cutting down the functionality to make AdonisJS win the benchmark Olympics.

However, we look closer at the performance metrics and fine-tune the framework performance wherever it matters. For example:

- The AdonisJS HTTP server in standalone mode is [on par with Fastify in performance](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/benchmarks.md). 
- The validation layer of the framework [outperforms other popular validation libraries](https://github.com/vinejs/vine/blob/main/benchmarks.md) in the Node.js ecosystem.

## Do you offer paid support?
Yes! On our website, you can learn more about the [priority support program](https://adonisjs.com/support_program).

## How do I stay up to date with AdonisJS?
Check out the following links to stay connected and up-to-date.

- [Discord server](https://discord.gg/vDcEjq6)
- [X (Formerly Twitter)](https://twitter.com/adonisframework)
- [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/orgs/adonisjs/discussions)
- [Blog and Newsletter](https://adonisjs.com/blog?referrer=adonisjs_docs_faq)
- [Adocasts](https://adocasts.com/?referrer=adonisjs_docs_faq)
