content/docs/concepts/adonisrc_file.md, before:

# AdonisRC file

The `adonisrc.ts` file is used to configure the workspace settings of your application. In this file, you can [register providers](#providers), define [command aliases](#commandsaliases), specify the [files to copy](#metafiles) to the production build, and much more.

:::warning

The `adonisrc.ts` file is imported by tools other than your AdonisJS application. Therefore, you must not write any application specific code or environment specific conditionals in this file.

:::

The file contains the minimum required configuration to run your application. However, you can view the complete file contents by running the `node ace inspect:rcfile` command.

```sh
node ace inspect:rcfile
```

You can access the parsed RCFile contents using the `app` service.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'

console.log(app.rcFile)
```

## typescript

The `typescript` property informs the framework and the Ace commands that your application uses TypeScript. Currently, this value is always set to `true`. However, we will later allow applications to be written in JavaScript.

## directories

A set of directories and their paths used by the scaffolding commands. If you decide to rename specific directories, update their new path inside the `directories` object to notify scaffolding commands.

```ts
{
  directories: {
    config: 'config',
    commands: 'commands',
    contracts: 'contracts',
    public: 'public',
    providers: 'providers',
    languageFiles: 'resources/lang',
    migrations: 'database/migrations',
    seeders: 'database/seeders',
    factories: 'database/factories',
    views: 'resources/views',
    start: 'start',
    tmp: 'tmp',
    tests: 'tests',
    httpControllers: 'app/controllers',
    models: 'app/models',
    services: 'app/services',
    exceptions: 'app/exceptions',
    mails: 'app/mails',
    middleware: 'app/middleware',
    policies: 'app/policies',
    validators: 'app/validators',
    events: 'app/events',
    listeners: 'app/listeners',
    stubs: 'stubs',
  }
}
```

## preloads
An array of files to import at the time of booting the application. The files are imported immediately after booting the service providers.

You can define the environment in which to import the file. The valid options are:

- `web` environment refers to the process started for the HTTP server.
- `console` environment refers to the Ace commands except for the `repl` command.
- `repl` environment refers to the process started using the `node ace repl` command.
- Finally, the `test` environment refers to the process started for running the tests.


:::note

You can create and register a preload file using the `node ace make:preload` command.


:::


```ts
{
  preloads: [
    () => import('./start/view.js')
  ]
}
```

```ts
{
  preloads: [
    {
      file: () => import('./start/view.js'),
      environment: [
        'web',
        'console',
        'test'
      ]
    },
  ]
}
```

## metaFiles

The `metaFiles` array is a collection of files you want to copy to the `build` folder when creating the production build.

These are non-TypeScript/JavaScript files that must exist in the production build for your application to work. For example, the Edge templates, i18n language files, etc.

- `pattern`: The [glob pattern](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby#globbing-patterns) to find matching files. 
- `reloadServer`: Reload the development server when matching files change.

```ts
{
  metaFiles: [
    {
      pattern: 'public/**',
      reloadServer: false
    },
    {
      pattern: 'resources/views/**/*.edge',
      reloadServer: false
    }
  ]
}
```

## commands
An array of functions to lazy import ace commands from installed packages. Your applications commands will be imported automatically and hence you do not have to register them explicitly.

See also: [Creating ace commands](../ace/creating_commands.md)

```ts
{
  commands: [
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/commands'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/lucid/commands')
  ]
}
```

## commandsAliases
A key-value pair of command aliases. This is usually to help you create memorable aliases for the commands that are harder to type or remember.

See also: [Creating command aliases](../ace/introduction.md#creating-command-aliases)

```ts
{
  commandsAliases: {
    migrate: 'migration:run'
  }
}
```

You can also define multiple aliases for the same command.

```ts
{
  commandsAliases: {
    migrate: 'migration:run',
    up: 'migration:run'
  }
}
```

## tests

The `tests` object registers the test suites and some of the global settings for the test runner.

See also: [Introduction to testing](../testing/introduction.md)

```ts
{
  tests: {
    timeout: 2000,
    forceExit: false,
    suites: [
      {
        name: 'functional',
        files: [
          'tests/functional/**/*.spec.ts'
        ],
        timeout: 30000
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- `timeout`: Define the default timeout for all the tests.
- `forceExit`:  Forcefully exit the application process as soon as the tests are complete. Usually, it is good practice to perform a graceful exit.
- `suite.name`: A unique name for the test suite.
- `suite.files`: An array of glob patterns to import the test files.
- `suite.timeout`: The default timeout for all the tests inside the suite.

## providers
An array of service providers to load during the application boot phase.

By default, the providers are loaded in all the environments. However, you can also define an explicit array of environments to import the provider.

- `web` environment refers to the process started for the HTTP server.
- `console` environment refers to the Ace commands except for the `repl` command.
- `repl` environment refers to the process started using the `node ace repl` command.
- Finally, the `test` environment refers to the process started for running the tests.

:::note
Providers are loaded in the same order as registered inside the `providers` array.
:::

See also: [Service providers](service_providers.md)

```ts
{
  providers: [
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/app_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/http_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/hash_provider'),
    () => import('./providers/app_provider.js'),
  ]
}
```

```ts
{
  providers: [
    {
      file: () => import('./providers/app_provider.js'),
      environment: [
        'web',
        'console',
        'test'
      ]
    },
    {
      file: () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/http_provider'),
      environment: [
        'web'
      ]
    },
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/hash_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/app_provider')
  ]
}
```

## assetsBundler

The `serve` and `build` command attempts to detect the assets used by your application to compile the frontend assets.

The detection is performed for [vite](https://vitejs.dev) by searching for the `vite.config.js` file and [Webpack encore](https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore) by searching for the `webpack.config.js` file.

However, if you use a different assets bundler, you can configure it inside the `adonisrc.ts` file as follows.

```ts
{
  assetsBundler: {
    name: 'vite',
    devServer: {
      command: 'vite',
      args: []
    },
    build: {
      command: 'vite',
      args: ["build"]
    },
  }
}
```

- `name` - The name of the asset bundler you use. It is required for display purposes.
- `devServer.*` - The command and its arguments to start the development server.
- `build.*` - The command and its arguments to to create the production build.

Commit message:

feat: og images (#90)
* feat: og images

* chore: use preview url

* fix: url

* feat: twitter tags

* fix: duplicate entry titles

* chore: shortened some summary

* feat: add category to template

* refactor: update ace permalink

* feat: update og images

* chore: update absolute url

content/docs/concepts/adonisrc_file.md, after:

---
summary: 'The `adonisrc.ts` file is used to configure the workspace settings of your application.'
---

# AdonisRC file

The `adonisrc.ts` file is used to configure the workspace settings of your application. In this file, you can [register providers](#providers), define [command aliases](#commandsaliases), specify the [files to copy](#metafiles) to the production build, and much more.

:::warning

The `adonisrc.ts` file is imported by tools other than your AdonisJS application. Therefore, you must not write any application specific code or environment specific conditionals in this file.

:::

The file contains the minimum required configuration to run your application. However, you can view the complete file contents by running the `node ace inspect:rcfile` command.

```sh
node ace inspect:rcfile
```

You can access the parsed RCFile contents using the `app` service.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'

console.log(app.rcFile)
```

## typescript

The `typescript` property informs the framework and the Ace commands that your application uses TypeScript. Currently, this value is always set to `true`. However, we will later allow applications to be written in JavaScript.

## directories

A set of directories and their paths used by the scaffolding commands. If you decide to rename specific directories, update their new path inside the `directories` object to notify scaffolding commands.

```ts
{
  directories: {
    config: 'config',
    commands: 'commands',
    contracts: 'contracts',
    public: 'public',
    providers: 'providers',
    languageFiles: 'resources/lang',
    migrations: 'database/migrations',
    seeders: 'database/seeders',
    factories: 'database/factories',
    views: 'resources/views',
    start: 'start',
    tmp: 'tmp',
    tests: 'tests',
    httpControllers: 'app/controllers',
    models: 'app/models',
    services: 'app/services',
    exceptions: 'app/exceptions',
    mails: 'app/mails',
    middleware: 'app/middleware',
    policies: 'app/policies',
    validators: 'app/validators',
    events: 'app/events',
    listeners: 'app/listeners',
    stubs: 'stubs',
  }
}
```

## preloads
An array of files to import at the time of booting the application. The files are imported immediately after booting the service providers.

You can define the environment in which to import the file. The valid options are:

- `web` environment refers to the process started for the HTTP server.
- `console` environment refers to the Ace commands except for the `repl` command.
- `repl` environment refers to the process started using the `node ace repl` command.
- Finally, the `test` environment refers to the process started for running the tests.


:::note

You can create and register a preload file using the `node ace make:preload` command.


:::


```ts
{
  preloads: [
    () => import('./start/view.js')
  ]
}
```

```ts
{
  preloads: [
    {
      file: () => import('./start/view.js'),
      environment: [
        'web',
        'console',
        'test'
      ]
    },
  ]
}
```

## metaFiles

The `metaFiles` array is a collection of files you want to copy to the `build` folder when creating the production build.

These are non-TypeScript/JavaScript files that must exist in the production build for your application to work. For example, the Edge templates, i18n language files, etc.

- `pattern`: The [glob pattern](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby#globbing-patterns) to find matching files. 
- `reloadServer`: Reload the development server when matching files change.

```ts
{
  metaFiles: [
    {
      pattern: 'public/**',
      reloadServer: false
    },
    {
      pattern: 'resources/views/**/*.edge',
      reloadServer: false
    }
  ]
}
```

## commands
An array of functions to lazy import ace commands from installed packages. Your applications commands will be imported automatically and hence you do not have to register them explicitly.

See also: [Creating ace commands](../ace/creating_commands.md)

```ts
{
  commands: [
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/commands'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/lucid/commands')
  ]
}
```

## commandsAliases
A key-value pair of command aliases. This is usually to help you create memorable aliases for the commands that are harder to type or remember.

See also: [Creating command aliases](../ace/introduction.md#creating-command-aliases)

```ts
{
  commandsAliases: {
    migrate: 'migration:run'
  }
}
```

You can also define multiple aliases for the same command.

```ts
{
  commandsAliases: {
    migrate: 'migration:run',
    up: 'migration:run'
  }
}
```

## tests

The `tests` object registers the test suites and some of the global settings for the test runner.

See also: [Introduction to testing](../testing/introduction.md)

```ts
{
  tests: {
    timeout: 2000,
    forceExit: false,
    suites: [
      {
        name: 'functional',
        files: [
          'tests/functional/**/*.spec.ts'
        ],
        timeout: 30000
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

- `timeout`: Define the default timeout for all the tests.
- `forceExit`:  Forcefully exit the application process as soon as the tests are complete. Usually, it is good practice to perform a graceful exit.
- `suite.name`: A unique name for the test suite.
- `suite.files`: An array of glob patterns to import the test files.
- `suite.timeout`: The default timeout for all the tests inside the suite.

## providers
An array of service providers to load during the application boot phase.

By default, the providers are loaded in all the environments. However, you can also define an explicit array of environments to import the provider.

- `web` environment refers to the process started for the HTTP server.
- `console` environment refers to the Ace commands except for the `repl` command.
- `repl` environment refers to the process started using the `node ace repl` command.
- Finally, the `test` environment refers to the process started for running the tests.

:::note
Providers are loaded in the same order as registered inside the `providers` array.
:::

See also: [Service providers](service_providers.md)

```ts
{
  providers: [
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/app_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/http_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/hash_provider'),
    () => import('./providers/app_provider.js'),
  ]
}
```

```ts
{
  providers: [
    {
      file: () => import('./providers/app_provider.js'),
      environment: [
        'web',
        'console',
        'test'
      ]
    },
    {
      file: () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/http_provider'),
      environment: [
        'web'
      ]
    },
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/hash_provider'),
    () => import('@adonisjs/core/providers/app_provider')
  ]
}
```

## assetsBundler

The `serve` and `build` command attempts to detect the assets used by your application to compile the frontend assets.

The detection is performed for [vite](https://vitejs.dev) by searching for the `vite.config.js` file and [Webpack encore](https://github.com/symfony/webpack-encore) by searching for the `webpack.config.js` file.

However, if you use a different assets bundler, you can configure it inside the `adonisrc.ts` file as follows.

```ts
{
  assetsBundler: {
    name: 'vite',
    devServer: {
      command: 'vite',
      args: []
    },
    build: {
      command: 'vite',
      args: ["build"]
    },
  }
}
```

- `name` - The name of the asset bundler you use. It is required for display purposes.
- `devServer.*` - The command and its arguments to start the development server.
- `build.*` - The command and its arguments to to create the production build.
