content/docs/authentication/session_guard.md, before:

---
summary: Learn how to authenticate users using the session guard in AdonisJS.
---

# Session guard
The session guard uses the [@adonisjs/session](../basics/session.md) package to login and authenticate users during an HTTP request.

Sessions and cookies have been on the internet for a long time and work great for most applications. Therefore, we recommend using the session guard for server-rendered applications or an SPA web client on the same top-level domain.

## Configuring the guard
The authentication guards are defined inside the `config/auth.ts` file. You can configure multiple guards inside this file under the `guards` object.

```ts
// title: config/auth.ts
import { defineConfig } from '@adonisjs/auth'
// highlight-start
import { sessionGuard, sessionUserProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'
// highlight-end

const authConfig = defineConfig({
  default: 'web',
  guards: {
    // highlight-start
    web: sessionGuard({
      useRememberMeTokens: false,
      provider: sessionUserProvider({
        model: () => import('#models/user'),
      }),
    })
    // highlight-end
  },
})

export default authConfig
```

The `sessionGuard` method creates an instance of the [SessionGuard](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/guard.ts) class. It accepts a user provider that can be used to find users during authentication and an optional config object to configure the remember tokens behavior.

The `sessionUserProvider` method creates an instance of the [SessionLucidUserProvider](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/user_providers/lucid.ts) class. It accepts a reference to the model to use for authentication.

## Performing login
You can login a user using the `guard.login` method. The method accepts an instance of the User model and creates a login session for them.

In the following example:

- We use the `verifyCredentials` from the [AuthFinder mixin](./verifying_user_credentials.md#using-the-auth-finder-mixin) to find a user by email and password.

- The `auth.use('web')` returns an instance of the [SessionGuard](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/guard.ts) configured inside the `config/auth.ts` file.

- Next, we call the `guard.login(user)` method to create a login session for the user.

- Finally, we redirect the user to the `/dashboard` endpoint. Feel free to customize the redirect endpoint.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'
import { HttpContext } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

export default class SessionController {
  async store({ request, auth, response }: HttpContext) {
    // highlight-start
    /**
     * Step 1: Get credentials from the request body
     */
    const { email, password } = request.only(['email', 'password'])

    /**
     * Step 2: Verify credentials
     */
    const user = await User.verifyCredentials(email, password)

    /**
     * Step 3: Login user
     */
    await auth.use('web').login(user)

    /**
     * Step 4: Send them to a protected route
     */
    response.redirect('/dashboard')
    // highlight-end
  }
}
```

## Protecting routes

You can protect routes from unauthenticated users using the `auth` middleware. The middleware is registered inside the `start/kernel.ts` file under the named middleware collection.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

export const middleware = router.named({
  auth: () => import('#middleware/auth_middleware')
})
```

Apply the `auth` middleware to the routes you want to protect from unauthenticated users. 

```ts
// highlight-start
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
// highlight-end
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
 .get('dashboard', () => {})
 // highlight-start
 .use(middleware.auth())
 // highlight-end
```

By default, the auth middleware will authenticate the user against the `default` guard (as defined in the config file). However, you can specify an array of guards when assigning the `auth` middleware.

In the following example, the auth middleware will attempt to authenticate the request using the `web` and the `api` guards.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
 .get('dashboard', () => {})
 // highlight-start
 .use(
   middleware.auth({
     guards: ['web', 'api']
   })
 )
 // highlight-end
```

### Handling authentication exception

The auth middleware throws the [E_UNAUTHORIZED_ACCESS](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/src/auth/errors.ts#L18) if the user is not authenticated. The exception is handled automatically using the following content-negotiation rules.

- Request with `Accept=application/json` header will receive an array of errors with the `message` property.

- Request with `Accept=application/vnd.api+json` header will receive an array of errors as per the [JSON API](https://jsonapi.org/format/#errors) spec.

- The user will be redirected to the `/login` page for server-rendered applications. You can configure the redirect endpoint within the `auth` middleware class.

## Getting access to the logged-in user

You may access the logged-in user instance using the `auth.user` property. The value is only available when using the `auth` middleware or if you call the `auth.authenticate` or `auth.check` methods manually.

```ts
// title: Using auth middleware
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

```ts
// title: Manually calling authenticate method
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    /**
     * First, authenticate the user
     */
    await auth.authenticate()

    /**
     * Then access the user object
     */ 
    await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
```

### Check if the request is authenticated
You can check if a request has been authenticated using the `auth.isAuthenticated` flag. The value of `auth.user` will always be defined for an authenticated request.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    if (auth.isAuthenticated) {
      await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    }
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

### Get authenticated user or fail

If you do not like using the [non-null assertion operator](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/everyday-types.html#non-null-assertion-operator-postfix-) on the `auth.user` property, you may use the `auth.getUserOrFail` method. This method will return the user object or throw [E_UNAUTHORIZED_ACCESS](../references/exceptions.md#e_unauthorized_access) exception.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    const user = auth.getUserOrFail()
    await user.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

### Access user within Edge templates
The [InitializeAuthMiddleware](./introduction.md#the-initialize-auth-middleware) also shares the `ctx.auth` property with Edge templates. Therefore, you can access the currently logged-in user via the `auth.user` property.

```edge
@if(auth.isAuthenticated)
  <p> Hello {{ auth.user.email }} </p>
@end
```

If you want to fetch logged-in user information on a non-protected route, you can use the `auth.check` method to check if the user is logged-in and then access the `auth.user` property. A great use case for this is displaying the logged-in user information on the website header of a public page.

```edge
{{--
  This is a public page; therefore, it is not protected by the auth
  middleware. However, we still want to display the logged-in
  user info in the header of the website.

  For that, we use the `auth.check` method to silently check if the
  user is logged in and then displays their email in the header.

  You get the idea!
--}}

@eval(await auth.check())

<header>
  @if(auth.isAuthenticated)
    <p> Hello {{ auth.user.email }} </p>
  @end
</header>
```

## Performing logout
You can logout a user using the `guard.logout` method. During logout, the user state will be deleted from the session store. The currently active remember me token will also be deleted (if using remember me tokens).

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .post('logout', async ({ auth, response }) => {
    await auth.use('web').logout()
    return response.redirect('/login')
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

## Using the Remember Me feature
The Remember Me feature automatically login user after their session expires. This is done by generating a cryptographically secure token and saving it as a cookie inside the user's browser.

After the user session has expired, AdonisJS will use the remember me cookie, verify the token's validity, and automatically re-create the logged-in session for the user.

### Creating the Remember Me Tokens table

The remember me tokens are saved inside the database, and therefore, you must create a new migration to create the `remember_me_tokens` table.

```sh
node ace make:migration remember_me_tokens
```

```ts
import { BaseSchema } from '@adonisjs/lucid/schema'

export default class extends BaseSchema {
  protected tableName = 'remember_me_tokens'

  async up() {
    this.schema.createTable(this.tableName, (table) => {
      table.increments()
      table
        .integer('tokenable_id')
        .notNullable()
        .unsigned()
        .references('id')
        .inTable('users')
        .onDelete('CASCADE')

      table.string('hash').notNullable().unique()
      table.timestamp('created_at').notNullable()
      table.timestamp('updated_at').notNullable()
      table.timestamp('expires_at').notNullable()
    })
  }

  async down() {
    this.schema.dropTable(this.tableName)
  }
}
```

### Configuring the tokens provider
To read-write tokens, you will have to assign the [DbRememberMeTokensProvider](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/token_providers/db.ts) to the User model.

```ts
import { BaseModel } from '@adonisjs/lucid/orm'
// highlight-start
import { DbRememberMeTokensProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'
// highlight-end

export default class User extends BaseModel {
  // ...rest of the model properties

  // highlight-start
  static rememberMeTokens = DbRememberMeTokensProvider.forModel(User)
  // highlight-end
}
```

### Enabling Remember Me tokens inside the config
Finally, let's enable the `useRememberTokens` flag on the session guard config inside the `config/auth.ts` file.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from '@adonisjs/auth'
import { sessionGuard, sessionUserProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'

const authConfig = defineConfig({
  default: 'web',
  guards: {
    web: sessionGuard({
      // highlight-start
      useRememberMeTokens: true,
      rememberMeTokensAge: '2 years',
      // highlight-end
      provider: sessionUserProvider({
        model: () => import('#models/user'),
      }),
    })
  },
})

export default authConfig
```

### Remembering users during login
Once the setup is completed, you can generate the remember me token and cookie using the `guard.login` method as follows.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'
import { HttpContext } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

export default class SessionController {
  async store({ request, auth, response }: HttpContext) {
    const { email, password } = request.only(['email', 'password'])
    const user = await User.verifyCredentials(email, password)

    await auth.use('web').login(
      user,
      // highlight-start
      /**
       * Generate token when "remember_me" input exists
       */
      !!request.input('remember_me')
      // highlight-end
    )
    
    response.redirect('/dashboard')
  }
}
```

## Using the guest middleware
The auth package ships with a guest middleware you can use to redirect the logged-in users from accessing the `/login` page. This should be done to avoid creating multiple sessions for a single user on a single device.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'

router
  .get('/login', () => {})
  .use(middleware.guest())
```

By default, the guest middleware will check the user logged-in status using the `default` guard (as defined in the config file). However, you can specify an array of guards when assigning the `guest` middleware.

```ts
router
  .get('/login', () => {})
  .use(middleware.guest({
    guards: ['web', 'admin_web']
  }))
```

Finally, you can configure the redirect route for the logged-in users inside the `./app/middleware/guest_middleware.ts` file.

## Events
Please check the [events reference guide](../references/events.md#session_authcredentials_verified) to view the list of available events emitted by the Auth package.

Commit message:

doc(auth:session): add documentation about the silent auth middleware

content/docs/authentication/session_guard.md, after:

---
summary: Learn how to authenticate users using the session guard in AdonisJS.
---

# Session guard
The session guard uses the [@adonisjs/session](../basics/session.md) package to login and authenticate users during an HTTP request.

Sessions and cookies have been on the internet for a long time and work great for most applications. Therefore, we recommend using the session guard for server-rendered applications or an SPA web client on the same top-level domain.

## Configuring the guard
The authentication guards are defined inside the `config/auth.ts` file. You can configure multiple guards inside this file under the `guards` object.

```ts
// title: config/auth.ts
import { defineConfig } from '@adonisjs/auth'
// highlight-start
import { sessionGuard, sessionUserProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'
// highlight-end

const authConfig = defineConfig({
  default: 'web',
  guards: {
    // highlight-start
    web: sessionGuard({
      useRememberMeTokens: false,
      provider: sessionUserProvider({
        model: () => import('#models/user'),
      }),
    })
    // highlight-end
  },
})

export default authConfig
```

The `sessionGuard` method creates an instance of the [SessionGuard](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/guard.ts) class. It accepts a user provider that can be used to find users during authentication and an optional config object to configure the remember tokens behavior.

The `sessionUserProvider` method creates an instance of the [SessionLucidUserProvider](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/user_providers/lucid.ts) class. It accepts a reference to the model to use for authentication.

## Performing login
You can login a user using the `guard.login` method. The method accepts an instance of the User model and creates a login session for them.

In the following example:

- We use the `verifyCredentials` from the [AuthFinder mixin](./verifying_user_credentials.md#using-the-auth-finder-mixin) to find a user by email and password.

- The `auth.use('web')` returns an instance of the [SessionGuard](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/guard.ts) configured inside the `config/auth.ts` file.

- Next, we call the `guard.login(user)` method to create a login session for the user.

- Finally, we redirect the user to the `/dashboard` endpoint. Feel free to customize the redirect endpoint.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'
import { HttpContext } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

export default class SessionController {
  async store({ request, auth, response }: HttpContext) {
    // highlight-start
    /**
     * Step 1: Get credentials from the request body
     */
    const { email, password } = request.only(['email', 'password'])

    /**
     * Step 2: Verify credentials
     */
    const user = await User.verifyCredentials(email, password)

    /**
     * Step 3: Login user
     */
    await auth.use('web').login(user)

    /**
     * Step 4: Send them to a protected route
     */
    response.redirect('/dashboard')
    // highlight-end
  }
}
```

## Protecting routes

You can protect routes from unauthenticated users using the `auth` middleware. The middleware is registered inside the `start/kernel.ts` file under the named middleware collection.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

export const middleware = router.named({
  auth: () => import('#middleware/auth_middleware')
})
```

Apply the `auth` middleware to the routes you want to protect from unauthenticated users. 

```ts
// highlight-start
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
// highlight-end
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
 .get('dashboard', () => {})
 // highlight-start
 .use(middleware.auth())
 // highlight-end
```

By default, the auth middleware will authenticate the user against the `default` guard (as defined in the config file). However, you can specify an array of guards when assigning the `auth` middleware.

In the following example, the auth middleware will attempt to authenticate the request using the `web` and the `api` guards.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
 .get('dashboard', () => {})
 // highlight-start
 .use(
   middleware.auth({
     guards: ['web', 'api']
   })
 )
 // highlight-end
```

### Handling authentication exception

The auth middleware throws the [E_UNAUTHORIZED_ACCESS](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/src/auth/errors.ts#L18) if the user is not authenticated. The exception is handled automatically using the following content-negotiation rules.

- Request with `Accept=application/json` header will receive an array of errors with the `message` property.

- Request with `Accept=application/vnd.api+json` header will receive an array of errors as per the [JSON API](https://jsonapi.org/format/#errors) spec.

- The user will be redirected to the `/login` page for server-rendered applications. You can configure the redirect endpoint within the `auth` middleware class.

## Getting access to the logged-in user

You may access the logged-in user instance using the `auth.user` property. The value is only available when using the `auth` or `silent_auth` middleware or if you call the `auth.authenticate` or `auth.check` methods manually.

```ts
// title: Using auth middleware
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

```ts
// title: Manually calling authenticate method
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    /**
     * First, authenticate the user
     */
    await auth.authenticate()

    /**
     * Then access the user object
     */ 
    await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
```

### Silent auth middleware

The `silent_auth` middleware is similar to the `auth` middleware, but it does not throw an exception when the user is not authenticated. Instead, the request still continues as usual.

This middleware is useful when you want to always authenticate the user to perform some actions but do not want to block the request when the user is not authenticated.

If you plan to use this middleware, then you must register it inside the list of [router middleware](../basics/middleware.md#router-middleware-stack).

```ts
// title: start/kernel.ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.use([
  // ...
  () => import('app/middleware/silent_auth')
])
```

### Check if the request is authenticated
You can check if a request has been authenticated using the `auth.isAuthenticated` flag. The value of `auth.user` will always be defined for an authenticated request.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    if (auth.isAuthenticated) {
      await auth.user!.getAllMetrics()
    }
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

### Get authenticated user or fail

If you do not like using the [non-null assertion operator](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/everyday-types.html#non-null-assertion-operator-postfix-) on the `auth.user` property, you may use the `auth.getUserOrFail` method. This method will return the user object or throw [E_UNAUTHORIZED_ACCESS](../references/exceptions.md#e_unauthorized_access) exception.

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .get('dashboard', async ({ auth }) => {
    // highlight-start
    const user = auth.getUserOrFail()
    await user.getAllMetrics()
    // highlight-end
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

### Access user within Edge templates
The [InitializeAuthMiddleware](./introduction.md#the-initialize-auth-middleware) also shares the `ctx.auth` property with Edge templates. Therefore, you can access the currently logged-in user via the `auth.user` property.

```edge
@if(auth.isAuthenticated)
  <p> Hello {{ auth.user.email }} </p>
@end
```

If you want to fetch logged-in user information on a non-protected route, you can use the `auth.check` method to check if the user is logged-in and then access the `auth.user` property. A great use case for this is displaying the logged-in user information on the website header of a public page.

```edge
{{--
  This is a public page; therefore, it is not protected by the auth
  middleware. However, we still want to display the logged-in
  user info in the header of the website.

  For that, we use the `auth.check` method to silently check if the
  user is logged in and then displays their email in the header.

  You get the idea!
--}}

@eval(await auth.check())

<header>
  @if(auth.isAuthenticated)
    <p> Hello {{ auth.user.email }} </p>
  @end
</header>
```

## Performing logout
You can logout a user using the `guard.logout` method. During logout, the user state will be deleted from the session store. The currently active remember me token will also be deleted (if using remember me tokens).

```ts
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router
  .post('logout', async ({ auth, response }) => {
    await auth.use('web').logout()
    return response.redirect('/login')
  })
  .use(middleware.auth())
```

## Using the Remember Me feature
The Remember Me feature automatically login user after their session expires. This is done by generating a cryptographically secure token and saving it as a cookie inside the user's browser.

After the user session has expired, AdonisJS will use the remember me cookie, verify the token's validity, and automatically re-create the logged-in session for the user.

### Creating the Remember Me Tokens table

The remember me tokens are saved inside the database, and therefore, you must create a new migration to create the `remember_me_tokens` table.

```sh
node ace make:migration remember_me_tokens
```

```ts
import { BaseSchema } from '@adonisjs/lucid/schema'

export default class extends BaseSchema {
  protected tableName = 'remember_me_tokens'

  async up() {
    this.schema.createTable(this.tableName, (table) => {
      table.increments()
      table
        .integer('tokenable_id')
        .notNullable()
        .unsigned()
        .references('id')
        .inTable('users')
        .onDelete('CASCADE')

      table.string('hash').notNullable().unique()
      table.timestamp('created_at').notNullable()
      table.timestamp('updated_at').notNullable()
      table.timestamp('expires_at').notNullable()
    })
  }

  async down() {
    this.schema.dropTable(this.tableName)
  }
}
```

### Configuring the tokens provider
To read-write tokens, you will have to assign the [DbRememberMeTokensProvider](https://github.com/adonisjs/auth/blob/main/modules/session_guard/token_providers/db.ts) to the User model.

```ts
import { BaseModel } from '@adonisjs/lucid/orm'
// highlight-start
import { DbRememberMeTokensProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'
// highlight-end

export default class User extends BaseModel {
  // ...rest of the model properties

  // highlight-start
  static rememberMeTokens = DbRememberMeTokensProvider.forModel(User)
  // highlight-end
}
```

### Enabling Remember Me tokens inside the config
Finally, let's enable the `useRememberTokens` flag on the session guard config inside the `config/auth.ts` file.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from '@adonisjs/auth'
import { sessionGuard, sessionUserProvider } from '@adonisjs/auth/session'

const authConfig = defineConfig({
  default: 'web',
  guards: {
    web: sessionGuard({
      // highlight-start
      useRememberMeTokens: true,
      rememberMeTokensAge: '2 years',
      // highlight-end
      provider: sessionUserProvider({
        model: () => import('#models/user'),
      }),
    })
  },
})

export default authConfig
```

### Remembering users during login
Once the setup is completed, you can generate the remember me token and cookie using the `guard.login` method as follows.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'
import { HttpContext } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

export default class SessionController {
  async store({ request, auth, response }: HttpContext) {
    const { email, password } = request.only(['email', 'password'])
    const user = await User.verifyCredentials(email, password)

    await auth.use('web').login(
      user,
      // highlight-start
      /**
       * Generate token when "remember_me" input exists
       */
      !!request.input('remember_me')
      // highlight-end
    )
    
    response.redirect('/dashboard')
  }
}
```

## Using the guest middleware
The auth package ships with a guest middleware you can use to redirect the logged-in users from accessing the `/login` page. This should be done to avoid creating multiple sessions for a single user on a single device.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'
import { middleware } from '#start/kernel'

router
  .get('/login', () => {})
  .use(middleware.guest())
```

By default, the guest middleware will check the user logged-in status using the `default` guard (as defined in the config file). However, you can specify an array of guards when assigning the `guest` middleware.

```ts
router
  .get('/login', () => {})
  .use(middleware.guest({
    guards: ['web', 'admin_web']
  }))
```

Finally, you can configure the redirect route for the logged-in users inside the `./app/middleware/guest_middleware.ts` file.

## Events
Please check the [events reference guide](../references/events.md#session_authcredentials_verified) to view the list of available events emitted by the Auth package.
