content/docs/basics/response.md, before:

---
summary: Response class is used to send HTTP responses. It supports sending HTML fragments, JSON objects, streams, and much more.
---

# Response

An instance of the [response class](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/src/response.ts) is used to respond to HTTP requests. AdonisJS supports sending **HTML fragments**, **JSON objects**, **streams**, and much more. The response instance can be accessed using the `ctx.response` property.

## Sending response

The simplest way to send a response is to return a value from the route handler.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async () => {
  /** Plain string */
  return 'This is the homepage.'

  /** Html fragment */
  return '<p> This is the homepage </p>'

  /** JSON response */
  return { page: 'home' }

  /** Converted to ISO string */
  return new Date()
})
```

Along with returning a value from the route handler, you can use the `response.send` method to explicitly set the response body. However, calling the `response.send` method multiple times will overwrite the old body and only keep the latest one.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /** Plain string */
  response.send('This is the homepage')

  /** Html fragment */
  response.send('<p> This is the homepage </p>')

  /** JSON response */
  response.send({ page: 'home' })

  /** Converted to ISO string */
  response.send(new Date())
})
```

A custom status code for the response can be set using the `response.status` method.

```ts
response.status(200).send({ page: 'home' })

// Send empty 201 response
response.status(201).send('')
```

## Streaming content

The `response.stream` method allows piping a stream to the response. The method internally destroys the stream after it finishes.

The `response.stream` method does not set the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers; you must set them explicitly before streaming the content.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  const image = fs.createReadStream('./some-file.jpg')
  response.stream(image)
})
```

A 500 status code is sent to the client in case of an error. However, you can customize the error code and message by defining a callback as the second parameter.

```ts
const image = fs.createReadStream('./some-file.jpg')

response.stream(image, () => {
  const message = 'Unable to serve file. Try again'
  const status = 400

  return [message, status]
})
```

## Downloading files

We recommend using the `response.download` method over the `response.stream` method when you want to stream files from the disk. This is because the `download` method automatically sets the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/uploads/:file', async ({ response, params }) => {
  const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)

  response.download(filePath)
})
```

Optionally, you can generate an [Etag](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag) for the file contents. Using Etags will help the browser re-use the cached response from the previous request (if any).

```ts
const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)
const generateEtag = true

response.download(filePath, generateEtag)
```

Similar to the `response.stream` method, you can send a custom error message and status code by defining a callback as the last parameter.

```ts
const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)
const generateEtag = true

response.download(filePath, generateEtag, (error) => {
  if (error.code === 'ENOENT') {
    return ['File does not exists', 404]
  }

  return ['Cannot download file', 400]
})
```

### Force downloading files

The `response.attachment` method is similar to the `response.download` method, but it forces the browsers to save the file on the user's computer by setting the [Content-Disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) header.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/uploads/:file', async ({ response, params }) => {
  const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)

  response.attachment(filePath, 'custom-filename.jpg')
})
```

## Setting response status and headers

### Setting status

You may set the response status using the `response.status` method. Calling this method will override the existing response status (if any). However, you may use the `response.safeStatus` method to set the status only when it is `undefined`.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /**
   * Sets the status to 200
   */
  response.safeStatus(200)

  /**
   * Does not set the status since it
   * is already set
   */
  response.safeStatus(201)
})
```

### Setting headers

You may set the response headers using the `response.header` method. This method overrides the existing header value (if it already exists). However, you may use the `response.safeHeader` method to set the header only when it is `undefined`.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /**
   * Defines the content-type header
   */
  response.safeHeader('Content-type', 'text/html')

  /**
   * Does not set the content-type header since it
   * is already set
   */
  response.safeHeader('Content-type', 'text/html')
})
```

You can use the `response.append` method to append values to existing header values.

```ts
response.append('Set-cookie', 'cookie-value')
```

The `response.removeHeader` method removes the existing header.

```ts
response.removeHeader('Set-cookie')
```

## Redirects

The `response.redirect` method returns an instance of the [Redirect](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/src/redirect.ts) class. The redirect class uses fluent API to construct the redirect URL.

The simplest way to perform a redirect is to call the `redirect.toPath` method with the redirection path.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/posts', async ({ response }) => {
  response.redirect().toPath('/articles')
})
```

The redirect class also allows constructing a URL from a pre-registered route. The `redirect.toRoute` method accepts the [route identifier](./routing.md#route-identifier) as the first parameter and the route params as the second parameter.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/articles/:id', async () => {}).as('articles.show')

router.get('/posts/:id', async ({ response, params }) => {
  response.redirect().toRoute('articles.show', { id: params.id })
})
```

### Redirect back to the previous page

You might want to redirect the user to the previous page during form submissions in case of validation errors. You can do that using the `redirect.back` method.

```ts
response.redirect().back()
```

### Redirection status code

The default status for redirect responses is `302`; you can change it by calling the `redirect.status` method.

```ts
response.redirect().status(301).toRoute('articles.show', { id: params.id })
```

### Redirect with query string

You can use the `withQs` method to append a query string to the redirect URL. The method accepts an object of a key-value pair and converts it to a string.

```ts
response.redirect().withQs({ page: 1, limit: 20 }).toRoute('articles.index')
```

To forward the query string from the current request URL, call the `withQs` method without any parameters.

```ts
// Forward current URL query string
response.redirect().withQs().toRoute('articles.index')
```

When redirecting back to the previous page, the `withQs` method will forward the query string of the previous page.

```ts
// Forward current URL query string
response.redirect().withQs().back()
```

## Aborting request with an error

You may use the `response.abort` method to end the request by raising an exception. The method will throw an `E_HTTP_REQUEST_ABORTED` exception and trigger the [exception handling](./exception_handling.md) flow.

```ts
router.get('posts/:id/edit', async ({ response, auth, params }) => {
  const post = await Post.findByOrFail(params.id)

  if (!auth.user.can('editPost', post)) {
    response.abort({ message: 'Cannot edit post' })
  }

  // continue with the rest of the logic
})
```

By default, the exception will create an HTTP response with a `400` status code. However, you can specify a custom status code as the second parameter.

```ts
response.abort({ message: 'Cannot edit post' }, 403)
```

## Running actions after response finishes

You may listen for the event when Node.js finishes writing the response to the TCP socket using the `response.onFinish` method. Under the hood, we use the [on-finished](https://github.com/jshttp/on-finished) package, so feel free to consult the package README file for an in-depth technical explanation.

```ts
router.get('posts', ({ response }) => {
  response.onFinish(() => {
    // cleanup logic
  })
})
```

## Accessing Node.js `res` object

You can access the [Node.js res object](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v19.x/docs/api/http.html#class-httpserverresponse) using the `response.response` property.

```ts
router.get('posts', ({ response }) => {
  console.log(response.response)
})
```

## Response body serialization

The response body set using the `response.send` method gets serialized to a string before it is [written as response](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/http.html#responsewritechunk-encoding-callback) to the outgoing message stream.

Following is the list of supported data types and their serialization rules.

- Arrays and Objects are stringified using the [safe stringify function](https://github.com/poppinss/utils/blob/main/src/json/safe_stringify.ts). The method is similar to `JSON.stringify` but removes the circular references and serializes `BigInt(s)`.
- The number and boolean values are converted to a string.
- The instance of the Date class is converted to a string by calling the `toISOString` method.
- Regular expressions and error objects are converted to a string by calling the `toString` method.
- Any other data type results in an exception.

### Content type inference

After serializing the response, the response class automatically infers and sets the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers.

Following is the list of rules we follow to set the `content-type` header.

- Content type is set to `application/json` for arrays and objects.
- It is set to `text/html` for HTML fragments.
- JSONP responses are sent with the `text/javascript` content type.
- The content type is set to `text/plain` for everything else.

## Extending Response class

You can add custom properties to the Response class using macros or getters. Make sure to read the [extending AdonisJS guide](../concepts/extending_the_framework.md) first if you are new to the concept of macros.

```ts
import { Response } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

Response.macro('property', function (this: Response) {
  return value
})
Response.getter('property', function (this: Response) {
  return value
})
```

Since the macros and getters are added at runtime, you must inform TypeScript about their types.

```ts
declare module '@adonisjs/core/http' {
  export interface Response {
    property: valueType
  }
}
```

Commit message:

doc(basics:response): add request-id (#171)

content/docs/basics/response.md, after:

---
summary: Response class is used to send HTTP responses. It supports sending HTML fragments, JSON objects, streams, and much more.
---

# Response

An instance of the [response class](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/src/response.ts) is used to respond to HTTP requests. AdonisJS supports sending **HTML fragments**, **JSON objects**, **streams**, and much more. The response instance can be accessed using the `ctx.response` property.

## Sending response

The simplest way to send a response is to return a value from the route handler.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async () => {
  /** Plain string */
  return 'This is the homepage.'

  /** Html fragment */
  return '<p> This is the homepage </p>'

  /** JSON response */
  return { page: 'home' }

  /** Converted to ISO string */
  return new Date()
})
```

Along with returning a value from the route handler, you can use the `response.send` method to explicitly set the response body. However, calling the `response.send` method multiple times will overwrite the old body and only keep the latest one.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /** Plain string */
  response.send('This is the homepage')

  /** Html fragment */
  response.send('<p> This is the homepage </p>')

  /** JSON response */
  response.send({ page: 'home' })

  /** Converted to ISO string */
  response.send(new Date())
})
```

A custom status code for the response can be set using the `response.status` method.

```ts
response.status(200).send({ page: 'home' })

// Send empty 201 response
response.status(201).send('')
```

## Streaming content

The `response.stream` method allows piping a stream to the response. The method internally destroys the stream after it finishes.

The `response.stream` method does not set the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers; you must set them explicitly before streaming the content.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  const image = fs.createReadStream('./some-file.jpg')
  response.stream(image)
})
```

A 500 status code is sent to the client in case of an error. However, you can customize the error code and message by defining a callback as the second parameter.

```ts
const image = fs.createReadStream('./some-file.jpg')

response.stream(image, () => {
  const message = 'Unable to serve file. Try again'
  const status = 400

  return [message, status]
})
```

## Downloading files

We recommend using the `response.download` method over the `response.stream` method when you want to stream files from the disk. This is because the `download` method automatically sets the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/uploads/:file', async ({ response, params }) => {
  const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)

  response.download(filePath)
})
```

Optionally, you can generate an [Etag](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag) for the file contents. Using Etags will help the browser re-use the cached response from the previous request (if any).

```ts
const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)
const generateEtag = true

response.download(filePath, generateEtag)
```

Similar to the `response.stream` method, you can send a custom error message and status code by defining a callback as the last parameter.

```ts
const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)
const generateEtag = true

response.download(filePath, generateEtag, (error) => {
  if (error.code === 'ENOENT') {
    return ['File does not exists', 404]
  }

  return ['Cannot download file', 400]
})
```

### Force downloading files

The `response.attachment` method is similar to the `response.download` method, but it forces the browsers to save the file on the user's computer by setting the [Content-Disposition](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Disposition) header.

```ts
import app from '@adonisjs/core/services/app'
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/uploads/:file', async ({ response, params }) => {
  const filePath = app.makePath(`uploads/${params.file}`)

  response.attachment(filePath, 'custom-filename.jpg')
})
```

## Setting response status and headers

### Setting status

You may set the response status using the `response.status` method. Calling this method will override the existing response status (if any). However, you may use the `response.safeStatus` method to set the status only when it is `undefined`.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /**
   * Sets the status to 200
   */
  response.safeStatus(200)

  /**
   * Does not set the status since it
   * is already set
   */
  response.safeStatus(201)
})
```

### Setting headers

You may set the response headers using the `response.header` method. This method overrides the existing header value (if it already exists). However, you may use the `response.safeHeader` method to set the header only when it is `undefined`.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  /**
   * Defines the content-type header
   */
  response.safeHeader('Content-type', 'text/html')

  /**
   * Does not set the content-type header since it
   * is already set
   */
  response.safeHeader('Content-type', 'text/html')
})
```

You can use the `response.append` method to append values to existing header values.

```ts
response.append('Set-cookie', 'cookie-value')
```

The `response.removeHeader` method removes the existing header.

```ts
response.removeHeader('Set-cookie')
```

### X-Request-Id header

If the header exists in the current request or if [Generating request ids](./request#generating-request-ids) is enabled, the header will be present in the response.

## Redirects

The `response.redirect` method returns an instance of the [Redirect](https://github.com/adonisjs/http-server/blob/main/src/redirect.ts) class. The redirect class uses fluent API to construct the redirect URL.

The simplest way to perform a redirect is to call the `redirect.toPath` method with the redirection path.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/posts', async ({ response }) => {
  response.redirect().toPath('/articles')
})
```

The redirect class also allows constructing a URL from a pre-registered route. The `redirect.toRoute` method accepts the [route identifier](./routing.md#route-identifier) as the first parameter and the route params as the second parameter.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/articles/:id', async () => {}).as('articles.show')

router.get('/posts/:id', async ({ response, params }) => {
  response.redirect().toRoute('articles.show', { id: params.id })
})
```

### Redirect back to the previous page

You might want to redirect the user to the previous page during form submissions in case of validation errors. You can do that using the `redirect.back` method.

```ts
response.redirect().back()
```

### Redirection status code

The default status for redirect responses is `302`; you can change it by calling the `redirect.status` method.

```ts
response.redirect().status(301).toRoute('articles.show', { id: params.id })
```

### Redirect with query string

You can use the `withQs` method to append a query string to the redirect URL. The method accepts an object of a key-value pair and converts it to a string.

```ts
response.redirect().withQs({ page: 1, limit: 20 }).toRoute('articles.index')
```

To forward the query string from the current request URL, call the `withQs` method without any parameters.

```ts
// Forward current URL query string
response.redirect().withQs().toRoute('articles.index')
```

When redirecting back to the previous page, the `withQs` method will forward the query string of the previous page.

```ts
// Forward current URL query string
response.redirect().withQs().back()
```

## Aborting request with an error

You may use the `response.abort` method to end the request by raising an exception. The method will throw an `E_HTTP_REQUEST_ABORTED` exception and trigger the [exception handling](./exception_handling.md) flow.

```ts
router.get('posts/:id/edit', async ({ response, auth, params }) => {
  const post = await Post.findByOrFail(params.id)

  if (!auth.user.can('editPost', post)) {
    response.abort({ message: 'Cannot edit post' })
  }

  // continue with the rest of the logic
})
```

By default, the exception will create an HTTP response with a `400` status code. However, you can specify a custom status code as the second parameter.

```ts
response.abort({ message: 'Cannot edit post' }, 403)
```

## Running actions after response finishes

You may listen for the event when Node.js finishes writing the response to the TCP socket using the `response.onFinish` method. Under the hood, we use the [on-finished](https://github.com/jshttp/on-finished) package, so feel free to consult the package README file for an in-depth technical explanation.

```ts
router.get('posts', ({ response }) => {
  response.onFinish(() => {
    // cleanup logic
  })
})
```

## Accessing Node.js `res` object

You can access the [Node.js res object](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v19.x/docs/api/http.html#class-httpserverresponse) using the `response.response` property.

```ts
router.get('posts', ({ response }) => {
  console.log(response.response)
})
```

## Response body serialization

The response body set using the `response.send` method gets serialized to a string before it is [written as response](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/http.html#responsewritechunk-encoding-callback) to the outgoing message stream.

Following is the list of supported data types and their serialization rules.

- Arrays and Objects are stringified using the [safe stringify function](https://github.com/poppinss/utils/blob/main/src/json/safe_stringify.ts). The method is similar to `JSON.stringify` but removes the circular references and serializes `BigInt(s)`.
- The number and boolean values are converted to a string.
- The instance of the Date class is converted to a string by calling the `toISOString` method.
- Regular expressions and error objects are converted to a string by calling the `toString` method.
- Any other data type results in an exception.

### Content type inference

After serializing the response, the response class automatically infers and sets the `content-type` and the `content-length` headers.

Following is the list of rules we follow to set the `content-type` header.

- Content type is set to `application/json` for arrays and objects.
- It is set to `text/html` for HTML fragments.
- JSONP responses are sent with the `text/javascript` content type.
- The content type is set to `text/plain` for everything else.

## Extending Response class

You can add custom properties to the Response class using macros or getters. Make sure to read the [extending AdonisJS guide](../concepts/extending_the_framework.md) first if you are new to the concept of macros.

```ts
import { Response } from '@adonisjs/core/http'

Response.macro('property', function (this: Response) {
  return value
})
Response.getter('property', function (this: Response) {
  return value
})
```

Since the macros and getters are added at runtime, you must inform TypeScript about their types.

```ts
declare module '@adonisjs/core/http' {
  export interface Response {
    property: valueType
  }
}
```
