content/docs/testing/browser_tests.md, before:

# Browser tests

Browser tests are executed inside real browsers like Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. We make use of [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) (a browser automation tool) for interacting with webpages programmatically.

Playwright is both a testing framework and a library that exposes JavaScript APIs to interact with the browser. We **do not use the Playwright testing framework** because we are already using Japa, and using multiple testing frameworks inside a single project will only lead to confusion and config bloat.

Instead, we will use the [Browser Client](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client) plugin from Japa, which integrates nicely with Playwright and offers a great testing experience.

## Setup
The first step is to install the following packages from the npm packages registry.

:::codegroup

```sh
// title: npm
npm i -D playwright @japa/browser-client
```

:::

### Registering browser suite
Let's start by creating a new test suite for browser tests inside the `adonisrc.ts` file. The test files for the browser suite will be stored inside the `tests/browser` directory.

```ts
{
  tests: {
    suites: [
      // highlight-start
      {
        files: [
          'tests/browser/**/*.spec(.ts|.js)'
        ],
        name: 'browser',
        timeout: 300000
      }
      // highlight-end
    ]
  }
}
```

### Configuring the plugin
Before you can start writing tests, you must register the `browserClient` plugin within the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
import { browserClient } from '@japa/browser-client'

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  apiClient(),
  // highlight-start
  browserClient({
    runInSuites: ['browser']
  }),
  // highlight-end
  pluginAdonisJS(app)
]
```

## Basic example
Let's create an example test that will open the home page of your AdonisJS application and verify the contents of the page. The [`visit`](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client#browser-api) helper opens a new page and visits a URL. The return value is the [page object](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-page).

See also: [List of assertions methods](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client#assertions)

```sh
node ace make:test pages/home --suite=browser
# DONE:    create tests/browser/pages/home.spec.ts
```

```ts
// title: tests/browser/pages/home.spec.ts
import { test } from '@japa/runner'

test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit }) => {
    const page = await visit('/')
    await page.assertTextContains('body', 'It works!')
  })
})
```

Finally, let's run the above test using the `test` command. You may use the `--watch` flag to create a file watcher and re-run tests on every file change.

```sh
node ace test browser
```

![](./browser_tests_output.jpeg)

## Reading/writing cookies
When testing inside a real browser, the cookies are persisted throughout the lifecycle of a [browser context](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-browsercontext). 

Japa creates a fresh browser context for each test. Therefore, the cookies from one test will not leak onto other tests. However, multiple page visits inside a single test will share the cookies because they use the same `browserContext`.

```ts
test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit, browserContext }) => {
    // highlight-start
    await browserContext.setCookie('username', 'virk')
    // highlight-end
    
    // The "username" cookie will be sent during the request
    const homePage = await visit('/')

    // The "username" cookie will also be sent during this request
    const aboutPage = await visit('/about')
  })
})
```

Similarly, the cookies set by the server can be accessed using the `browserContext.getCookie` method.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  // highlight-start
  response.cookie('cartTotal', '100')
  // highlight-end

  return 'It works!'
})
```

```ts
test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit, browserContext }) => {
    const page = await visit('/')
    // highlight-start
    console.log(await browserContext.getCookie('cartTotal'))
    // highlight-end
  })
})
```

You may use the following methods to read/write encrypted and plain cookies.

```ts
// Write
await browserContext.setEncryptedCookie('username', 'virk')
await browserContext.setPlainCookie('username', 'virk')

// Read
await browserContext.getEncryptedCookie('cartTotal')
await browserContext.getPlainCookie('cartTotal')
```

## Populating session store
If you are using the [`@adonisjs/session`](../basics/session.md) package to read/write session data in your application, you may also want to use the `sessionBrowserClient` plugin to populate the session store when writing tests.

### Setup
The first step is registering the plugin inside the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
// insert-start
import { sessionBrowserClient } from '@adonisjs/session/plugins/browser_client'
// insert-end

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  pluginAdonisJS(app),
  // insert-start
  sessionBrowserClient(app)
  // insert-end
]
```

And then, update the `.env.test` file (create one if it is missing) and set the `SESSON_DRIVER` to `memory`.

```dotenv
// title: .env.test
SESSION_DRIVER=memory
```

### Writing session data
You may use the `browserContext.setSession` method to define the session data for the current browser context. 

All page visits using the same browser context will have access to the same session data. However, the session data will be removed when the browser or the context is closed.

```ts
test('checkout with cart items', async ({ browserContext, visit }) => {
  // highlight-start
  await browserContext.setSession({
    cartItems: [
      {
        id: 1,
        name: 'South Indian Filter Press Coffee'
      },
      {
        id: 2,
        name: 'Cold Brew Bags',
      }
    ]
  })
  // highlight-end

  const page = await visit('/checkout')
})
```

Like the `setSession` method, you may use the `browser.setFlashMessages` method to define flash messages.

```ts
/**
 * Define flash messages
 */
await browserContext.setFlashMessages({
  success: 'Post created successfully',
})

const page = await visit('/posts/1')

/**
 * Assert the post page shows the flash message
 * inside ".alert-success" div.
 */
await page.assertExists(page.locator(
  'div.alert-success',
  { hasText: 'Post created successfully' }
))
```

### Reading session data
You may read the data inside a session store using the `browserContext.getSession` and `browser.getFlashMessages` methods. These methods will return all the data for the session ID associated with a specific browser context instance.

```ts
const session = await browserContext.getSession()
const flashMessages = await browserContext.getFlashMessages()
```

## Authenticating users
If you are using the `@adonisjs/auth` package to authenticate users in your application, you may use the `authBrowserClient` Japa plugin to authenticate users when making HTTP requests to your application.

The first step is registering the plugin inside the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
// title: tests/bootstrap.ts
// insert-start
import { authBrowserClient } from '@adonisjs/auth/plugins/browser_client'
// insert-end

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  pluginAdonisJS(app),
  // insert-start
  authBrowserClient(app)
  // insert-end
]
```

If you are using session-based authentication, then make sure to switch the session driver to an in-memory store.

```dotenv
// title: .env.test
SESSION_DRIVER=memory
```

That's all. Now, you may login users using the `loginAs` method. The method accepts the user object as the only argument and marks the user as logged in the current browser context.

All page visits using the same browser context will have access to the logged-in user. However, the user session will be destroyed when the browser or the context is closed.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'

test('get payments list', async ({ browserContext, visit }) => {
  // highlight-start
  const user = await User.create(payload)
  await browserContext.loginAs(user)
  // highlight-end

  const page = await visit('/dashboard')
})
```

The `loginAs` method uses the default guard configured inside the `config/auth.ts` file for authentication. However, you may specify a custom guard using the `withGuard` method. For example:

```ts
const user = await User.create(payload)
await browserContext
  .withGuard('admin')
  .loginAs(user)
```


## The route helper
You may use the `route` helper from the TestContext to create a URL for a route. Using the route helper ensures that whenever you update your routes, you do not have to come back and fix all the URLs inside your tests.

The `route` helper accepts the same set of arguments accepted by the global template method [route](../basics/routing.md#url-builder).

```ts
test('see list of users', async ({ visit, route }) => {
  const page = await visit(
    // highlight-start
    route('users.list')
    // highlight-end
  )
})
```

Commit message:

feat: og images (#90)
* feat: og images

* chore: use preview url

* fix: url

* feat: twitter tags

* fix: duplicate entry titles

* chore: shortened some summary

* feat: add category to template

* refactor: update ace permalink

* feat: update og images

* chore: update absolute url

content/docs/testing/browser_tests.md, after:

---
summary: Browser testing with Playwright and Japa inside AdonisJS applications.
---

# Browser tests

Browser tests are executed inside real browsers like Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. We make use of [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) (a browser automation tool) for interacting with webpages programmatically.

Playwright is both a testing framework and a library that exposes JavaScript APIs to interact with the browser. We **do not use the Playwright testing framework** because we are already using Japa, and using multiple testing frameworks inside a single project will only lead to confusion and config bloat.

Instead, we will use the [Browser Client](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client) plugin from Japa, which integrates nicely with Playwright and offers a great testing experience.

## Setup
The first step is to install the following packages from the npm packages registry.

:::codegroup

```sh
// title: npm
npm i -D playwright @japa/browser-client
```

:::

### Registering browser suite
Let's start by creating a new test suite for browser tests inside the `adonisrc.ts` file. The test files for the browser suite will be stored inside the `tests/browser` directory.

```ts
{
  tests: {
    suites: [
      // highlight-start
      {
        files: [
          'tests/browser/**/*.spec(.ts|.js)'
        ],
        name: 'browser',
        timeout: 300000
      }
      // highlight-end
    ]
  }
}
```

### Configuring the plugin
Before you can start writing tests, you must register the `browserClient` plugin within the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
import { browserClient } from '@japa/browser-client'

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  apiClient(),
  // highlight-start
  browserClient({
    runInSuites: ['browser']
  }),
  // highlight-end
  pluginAdonisJS(app)
]
```

## Basic example
Let's create an example test that will open the home page of your AdonisJS application and verify the contents of the page. The [`visit`](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client#browser-api) helper opens a new page and visits a URL. The return value is the [page object](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-page).

See also: [List of assertions methods](https://japa.dev/docs/plugins/browser-client#assertions)

```sh
node ace make:test pages/home --suite=browser
# DONE:    create tests/browser/pages/home.spec.ts
```

```ts
// title: tests/browser/pages/home.spec.ts
import { test } from '@japa/runner'

test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit }) => {
    const page = await visit('/')
    await page.assertTextContains('body', 'It works!')
  })
})
```

Finally, let's run the above test using the `test` command. You may use the `--watch` flag to create a file watcher and re-run tests on every file change.

```sh
node ace test browser
```

![](./browser_tests_output.jpeg)

## Reading/writing cookies
When testing inside a real browser, the cookies are persisted throughout the lifecycle of a [browser context](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-browsercontext). 

Japa creates a fresh browser context for each test. Therefore, the cookies from one test will not leak onto other tests. However, multiple page visits inside a single test will share the cookies because they use the same `browserContext`.

```ts
test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit, browserContext }) => {
    // highlight-start
    await browserContext.setCookie('username', 'virk')
    // highlight-end
    
    // The "username" cookie will be sent during the request
    const homePage = await visit('/')

    // The "username" cookie will also be sent during this request
    const aboutPage = await visit('/about')
  })
})
```

Similarly, the cookies set by the server can be accessed using the `browserContext.getCookie` method.

```ts
import router from '@adonisjs/core/services/router'

router.get('/', async ({ response }) => {
  // highlight-start
  response.cookie('cartTotal', '100')
  // highlight-end

  return 'It works!'
})
```

```ts
test.group('Home page', () => {
  test('see welcome message', async ({ visit, browserContext }) => {
    const page = await visit('/')
    // highlight-start
    console.log(await browserContext.getCookie('cartTotal'))
    // highlight-end
  })
})
```

You may use the following methods to read/write encrypted and plain cookies.

```ts
// Write
await browserContext.setEncryptedCookie('username', 'virk')
await browserContext.setPlainCookie('username', 'virk')

// Read
await browserContext.getEncryptedCookie('cartTotal')
await browserContext.getPlainCookie('cartTotal')
```

## Populating session store
If you are using the [`@adonisjs/session`](../basics/session.md) package to read/write session data in your application, you may also want to use the `sessionBrowserClient` plugin to populate the session store when writing tests.

### Setup
The first step is registering the plugin inside the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
// insert-start
import { sessionBrowserClient } from '@adonisjs/session/plugins/browser_client'
// insert-end

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  pluginAdonisJS(app),
  // insert-start
  sessionBrowserClient(app)
  // insert-end
]
```

And then, update the `.env.test` file (create one if it is missing) and set the `SESSON_DRIVER` to `memory`.

```dotenv
// title: .env.test
SESSION_DRIVER=memory
```

### Writing session data
You may use the `browserContext.setSession` method to define the session data for the current browser context. 

All page visits using the same browser context will have access to the same session data. However, the session data will be removed when the browser or the context is closed.

```ts
test('checkout with cart items', async ({ browserContext, visit }) => {
  // highlight-start
  await browserContext.setSession({
    cartItems: [
      {
        id: 1,
        name: 'South Indian Filter Press Coffee'
      },
      {
        id: 2,
        name: 'Cold Brew Bags',
      }
    ]
  })
  // highlight-end

  const page = await visit('/checkout')
})
```

Like the `setSession` method, you may use the `browser.setFlashMessages` method to define flash messages.

```ts
/**
 * Define flash messages
 */
await browserContext.setFlashMessages({
  success: 'Post created successfully',
})

const page = await visit('/posts/1')

/**
 * Assert the post page shows the flash message
 * inside ".alert-success" div.
 */
await page.assertExists(page.locator(
  'div.alert-success',
  { hasText: 'Post created successfully' }
))
```

### Reading session data
You may read the data inside a session store using the `browserContext.getSession` and `browser.getFlashMessages` methods. These methods will return all the data for the session ID associated with a specific browser context instance.

```ts
const session = await browserContext.getSession()
const flashMessages = await browserContext.getFlashMessages()
```

## Authenticating users
If you are using the `@adonisjs/auth` package to authenticate users in your application, you may use the `authBrowserClient` Japa plugin to authenticate users when making HTTP requests to your application.

The first step is registering the plugin inside the `tests/bootstrap.ts` file.

```ts
// title: tests/bootstrap.ts
// insert-start
import { authBrowserClient } from '@adonisjs/auth/plugins/browser_client'
// insert-end

export const plugins: Config['plugins'] = [
  assert(),
  pluginAdonisJS(app),
  // insert-start
  authBrowserClient(app)
  // insert-end
]
```

If you are using session-based authentication, then make sure to switch the session driver to an in-memory store.

```dotenv
// title: .env.test
SESSION_DRIVER=memory
```

That's all. Now, you may login users using the `loginAs` method. The method accepts the user object as the only argument and marks the user as logged in the current browser context.

All page visits using the same browser context will have access to the logged-in user. However, the user session will be destroyed when the browser or the context is closed.

```ts
import User from '#models/user'

test('get payments list', async ({ browserContext, visit }) => {
  // highlight-start
  const user = await User.create(payload)
  await browserContext.loginAs(user)
  // highlight-end

  const page = await visit('/dashboard')
})
```

The `loginAs` method uses the default guard configured inside the `config/auth.ts` file for authentication. However, you may specify a custom guard using the `withGuard` method. For example:

```ts
const user = await User.create(payload)
await browserContext
  .withGuard('admin')
  .loginAs(user)
```


## The route helper
You may use the `route` helper from the TestContext to create a URL for a route. Using the route helper ensures that whenever you update your routes, you do not have to come back and fix all the URLs inside your tests.

The `route` helper accepts the same set of arguments accepted by the global template method [route](../basics/routing.md#url-builder).

```ts
test('see list of users', async ({ visit, route }) => {
  const page = await visit(
    // highlight-start
    route('users.list')
    // highlight-end
  )
})
```
